--- 
wordpress_id: 1089
layout: post
title: New Apple Kit
time: "17:47:09"
date: 2007-01-10 17:47:09
tags: 
- music
- xbmc
- tv
wordpress_url: http://schinckel.net/2007/01/10/new-apple-kit/
---
So, Apple has released a couple of new bits and pieces. I'm not going to mention the Apple iPhone, as it is unlikely to be available where I live, and the other two are a bit more interesting for me. The first one I noticed was the Apple TV. This is an AU$449 device that hooks up to (only widescreen) televisions, and allows you to watch video, view pictures and listen to audio that is stored on your Mac or PC. Which is exactly what I currently use XboxMediaCentre for. However, from a couple of things I've read on the Apple website, I won't be getting one soon. I think it acts like an iPod, and requires syncing. This because that 's' word is mentioned, and because it also talks about 'up to 8750 songs,' and since it has a 40GB hard drive, that sounds about how many tracks you could store on it. I don't store any media on the Xbox - it's all stored on a seperate media server. Why waste space by having duplicates of large files? It gets even worse if you look at Movies and TV programs. It may stream movies, I do recall seeing that somewhere. Plus, I may have to re-encode some video files, as AppleTV might not play everything, like VLC and XBMC do. The other feature that I think is missing is recording from TV. This makes it a deal-breaker for me. That's the only functionality I don't have with XBMC, and is the reason I'm going to consider getting a Mac Mini to replace it. If Apple don't come up with something better. Admittedly, it looks much nicer than an Xbox, but it won't play all of my Xbox games, either. Resolution-wise, the Apple TV might be a step ahead of the Xbox. I'm not sure what resolution XBMC can output, it may be 1080i, I'm not sure. (Note: after research, you can output this res with even a standard Xbox, but you need to get a special hi-res cable). • The other product Apple released is somewhat interesting. Airport Extreme. Basically, it's an 802.11a/b/g/n wireless router. It has a couple of other key features, however. It also has a USB port, but it's not a device-side port. Instead, it allows Hard Disk drives, Printers and the like to be plugged in. This would mean that the one device could replace (and upgrade!) my router, and my NSLU2 file server. The bonus is that it can easily handle multiple hard drives, unlike the NSLU2, which I'm probably going to have to install a different OS onto to get this functionality. At AU$259, (IIRC: $229 educational), it appears pricey, but replaces a NAS device, Print Server, and a wireless router. And beefs up the speed to 802.11n, which is 10x faster than my current router. Disadvantages of this over my current setup? I currently use my NSLU2 as a torrent client, and this functionality is unlikely to be built into the Airport Extreme! • What's next? I'm hoping to see what happens when some real users get their hands on these devices. I'd suggest they might be running a cut-down OSX, or perhaps Linux/BSD or something, in which case they should be eminently hackable. For instance, it might be possible to use the AppleTV hardware, plug in an EyeTV, and bingo, PVR. Much cheaper than a Mac Mini, but with all of the desired functionality. And, turn off Syncing of iTunes library, and instead just look for files on a Server, and stream audio as well as video. As for Airport Extreme, it's likely that this is a less powerful beast, but might provide better performance than my old NSLU2, which chugs along a bit when trying to grab more than one torrent at a time. (Don't mention that you should queue torrents, this is for low-rate torrents, and the software I use doesn't queue). 
