--- 
wordpress_id: 891
layout: post
title: Spooky Spam Sender
time: "20:54:28"
date: 2006-06-09 20:54:28
tags: 
- general
wordpress_url: http://schinckel.net/2006/06/09/spooky-spam-sender/
---
Always Attempt Alliteration. Anyway, I regularly check my Spam filter, as occasionally I come across a message or two that shouldn't have been classed as Spam (commonly called Ham, which I think is really cute). Often, I will look at sender names to sort this out. Today, I got a nasty surprise. One of the girls I have coached, and now play Touch Football with is Laeticia Douglas. Today, I got a Spam with the sender name Letitia Douglas. Totally freaked me out. Well, not really, but made me notice enough to blog about it. The contents of this message were more than a little difficult to understand: 

> the hoydenish not bugging some childlike in infinitesimal ! miller some bantu it ordinance in cope in anonymous but belying may apportion the buckboard in spore or antiphonal ! chlorinate ! buses it's drool may beryl see scum be wrench or taketh it currant but substantive or aureomycin on lexical on economic , presume in holmium may rio ! dryad a aware a arson it ani may decimal it balsa some mumble may verdant see stirling on screech but mont it shipley , cepheus the inharmonious ! osteopathic it panhandle Naw email hier

I'm fairly sure it's generated by a computer, although the level of literacy amongst some of the players on WoW makes me wonder at times. There was a link at the end, in the last two words, but the site timed out. The attached image shows it's an ad for some type of loan. I'm pretty fine for loans at the moment... 
