--- 
wordpress_id: 884
layout: post
title: One month of WoW
time: "20:48:15"
date: 2006-05-29 20:48:15
tags: 
- wow
wordpress_url: http://schinckel.net/2006/05/29/one-month-of-wow/
---
Well, it's been a bit over a month since I first got _World of Warcraft_, but almost exactly a month since I first finished downloading the updates and started playing. So, what's to know? In one month, I clocked up around _7 days_ of play time. That is, over 170 hours. In a month that only had 30 days, that's almost 25% of the past month I have spent in WoW. My main character, the Night Elf Druid, is now up to Level 39. I haven't decided which specialty I will move towards: _Feral_ looks the most fun, but _Moonkin_ (_Nature_ spec) form looks kinda nice too. The next big thing is the mount I can purchase at Level 40. I think the 150-odd gold I have saved up should cover it. Although upgrading spells is starting to become rather expensive too, at around 8 gold for the last batch.  My big tip to new players is to have an Auction House character, living in one of the big cities, that just picks up stuff from the mail, and sells it straight on the AH. Mine is in _Ironforge_, but I think _Darnassus_ would be even better - the mailbox there is just steps away from the auctioneers. Basically, everything that is surplus to requirements gets sent to this character, and sold for whatever I can sell it for. Because some deposits are quite large (>50s for some items), you'll want to pick your prices carefully. You don't want to sell for too little, but by the same token, you'll lose money if you pay a large deposit three times, and don't end up making this much on the final sale. The other trick is to get a couple of items you can manufacture that are reasonable earners. There is at least one item that is required for a quest that various trades can manufacture, and watching the AH means you can ensure that when that item isn't available, you can charge a hell of a lot more than it's worth. I've sold an item that costs me about 30s to make for upwards of 1g 50s. I also have another character that just stores my surplus items. For instance, learning _First Aid_ is important, but you don't want to have to waste all of that Silk Cloth until you are ready to use it, but neither do you want it taking up space in your pack. So send it to your _Müle_ (as mine is called), and when you need it, send it back. If you _Return_ an item, it appears immediately, but if you collect and re-send an item it takes about an hour. 
