--- 
wordpress_id: 763
layout: post
title: 200 Things...
time: "12:38:08"
date: 2004-10-01 12:38:08
tags: 
- general
wordpress_url: http://schinckel.net/2004/10/01/200-things/
---
This is going around, thought I'd stake my claims. Mine are in Bold. My comments are in Italics. 001. Bought everyone in the pub a drink 002. Swam with wild dolphins _I've patted them from the boat, but we were right out to sea._ **003. Climbed a mountain** 004. Taken a Ferrari for a test drive 005. Been inside the Great Pyramid 006. Held a tarantula **007. Taken a candlelit bath with someone** **008. Said "I love you" and meant it** **009. Hugged a tree** **010. Done a striptease** 011. Bungee jumped 012. Visited Paris 013. Watched a lightning storm at sea **014. Stayed up all night long, and watch the sun rise** 015. Seen the Northern Lights **016. Gone to a huge sports game** 017. Walked the stairs to the top of the Leaning Tower of Pisa **018. Grown and eaten your own vegetables** 019. Touched an iceberg **020. Slept under the stars 021. Changed a baby's diaper** 022. Taken a trip in a hot air balloon 023. Watched a meteor shower **024. Gotten drunk on champagne** 025. Given more than you can afford to charity **026. Looked up at the night sky through a telescope** **027. Had an uncontrollable giggling fit at the worst possible moment** **028. Had a food fight** **029. Bet on a winning horse** **030. Taken a sick day when you're not ill** 031. Asked out a stranger 032. Had a snowball fight _I've never even seen real snow!_ 033. Photocopied your bottom on the office photocopier **034. Screamed as loudly as you possibly can** **035. Held a lamb** _Hey, I grew up on a sheep farm. I've held countless lambs. Jason, no Comments please!_ 036. Enacted a favorite fantasy **037. Taken a midnight skinny dip** 038. Taken an ice cold bath 039. Had a meaningful conversation with a beggar **040. Seen a total eclipse** 041. Ridden a roller coaster **042. Hit a home run** 043. Fit three weeks miraculously into three days **044. Danced like a fool and not cared who was looking** 045. Adopted an accent for an entire day 046. Visited the birthplace of your ancestors **047. Actually felt happy about your life, even for just a moment** **048. Had two hard drives for your computer** 049. Visited all 50 states 050. Loved your job for all accounts **051. Taken care of someone who was shit-faced** 052. Had enough money to be truly satisfied **053. Had amazing friends** 054. Danced with a stranger in a foreign country **055. Watched wild whales** **056. Stolen a sign** 057. Backpacked in Europe **058. Taken a road-trip** **059. Rock climbing** 060. Lied to foreign government's official in that country to avoid notice **061. Midnight walk on the beach** 062. Sky diving 063. Visited Ireland **064. Been heartbroken longer then you were actually in love** 065. In a restaurant, sat at a stranger's table and had a meal with them 066. Visited Japan 067. Benchpressed your own weight **068. Milked a cow** **069. Alphabetized your records** **070. Pretended to be a superhero** **071. Sung karaoke** **072. Lounged around in bed all day** 073. Posed nude in front of strangers **074. Scuba diving** 075. Got it on to "Let's Get It On" by Marvin Gaye **076. Kissed in the rain** **077. Played in the mud** **078. Played in the rain** **079. Gone to a drive-in theater** **080. Done something you should regret, but don't regret it** 081. Visited the Great Wall of China 082. Discovered that someone who's not supposed to have known about your blog has discovered your blog **083. Dropped Windows in favor of something better** 084. Started a business **085. Fallen in love and not had your heart broken** 086. Toured ancient sites 087. Taken a martial arts class 088. Swordfought for the honor of a woman **089. Played D&D; for more than 6 hours straight** 090. Gotten married **091. Been in a movie** **092. Crashed a party** 093. Loved someone you shouldn't have **094. Kissed someone so passionately it made them dizzy** 095. Gotten divorced 096. Had sex at the office 097. Gone without food for 5 days **098. Made cookies from scratch** 099. Won first prize in a costume contest _Although, if there ever was a contest, I'd win with my Monkey outfit!_ 100. Ridden a gondola in Venice 101. Gotten a tattoo **102. Found that the texture of some materials can turn you on** 103. Rafted the Snake River 104. Been on television news programs as an "expert" **105. Got flowers for no reason** _Well, she thought there was a reason._ 106. Masturbated in a public place **107. Got so drunk you don't remember anything** 108. Been addicted to some form of illegal drug **109. Performed on stage**

> I'm an ordinary man, Who desires nothing more Than just an ordinary chance, To live exactly as he likes, And do precisely what he wants...

110. Been to Las Vegas _Gonna go, and get married by Elvis. True._ **111. Recorded music** **112. Eaten shark** **113. Had a one-night stand** 114. Gone to Thailand 115. Seen Siouxsie live **116. Bought a house** 117. Been in a combat zone 118. Buried one/both of your parents 119. Shaved or waxed your pubic hair off **120. Been on a cruise ship** 121. Spoken more than one language fluently **122. Gotten into a fight while attempting to defend someone** **123. Bounced a check** 124. Performed in Rocky Horror 125. Read - and understood - your credit report 126. Raised children **127. Recently bought and played with a favorite childhood toy** 128. Followed your favorite band/singer on tour 129. Created and named your own constellation of stars 130. Taken an exotic bicycle tour in a foreign country **131. Found out something significant that your ancestors did** _Designed the first portable "Iron Lung", amongst other things._ 132. Called or written your Congress person 133. Picked up and moved to another city to just start over 134. ?more than once? - More than thrice? 135. Walked the Golden Gate Bridge **136. Sang loudly in the car, and didn't stop when you knew someone was looking** 137. Had an abortion or your female partner did 138. Had plastic surgery 139. Survived an accident that you shouldn't have survived 140. Wrote articles for a large publication 141. Lost over 100 pounds 142. Held someone while they were having a flashback 143. Piloted an airplane **144. Petted a stingray** **145. Broken someone's heart** **146. Helped an animal give birth** **147. Been fired or laid off from a job** 148. Won money on a T.V. game show _Wayne won a Car!_ 149. Broken a bone 150. Killed a human being 151. Gone on an African photo safari **152. Ridden a motorcycle** **153. Driven any land vehicle at a speed of greater than 100 mph** 154. Had a body part of yours below the neck pierced **155. Fired a rifle, shotgun, or pistol** **156. Eaten mushrooms that were gathered in the wild** **157. Ridden a horse** 158. Had major surgery _Jaq has!_ 159. Had sex on a moving train 160. Had a snake as a pet 161. Hiked to the bottom of the Grand Canyon 162. Slept through an entire flight: takeoff, flight, and landing **163. Slept for more than 30 hours over the course of 48 hours** **164. Visited more foreign countries than U.S. states** 165. Visited all 7 continents 166. Taken a canoe trip that lasted more than 2 days **167. Eaten kangaroo meat** 168. Fallen in love at an ancient Mayan burial ground 169. Been a sperm or egg donor **170. Eaten sushi** **171. Had your picture in the newspaper** _On the front page!_ 172. Had 2 (or more) healthy romantic relationships for over a year in your lifetime **173. Changed someone's mind about something you care deeply about** 174. Gotten someone fired for their actions **175. Gone back to school** 176. Parasailed 177. Changed your name 178. Petted a cockroach 179. Eaten fried green tomatoes 180. Read The Iliad **181. Selected one "important" author who you missed in school, and read** _Pick any one of: Heller, Hemingway, Steinbeck, Hawkins._ **182. Dined in a restaurant and stolen silverware, plates, cups because your apartment needed them** _Stolen glasses from a pub for said reason._ 183. ?and gotten 86'ed from the restaurant because you did it so many times, they figured out it was you 184. Taught yourself an art from scratch **185. Killed and prepared an animal for eating** 186. Apologized to someone years after inflicting the hurt **187. Skipped all your school reunions** **188. Communicated with someone without sharing a common spoken language** 189. Been elected to public office 190. Written your own computer language 191. Thought to yourself that you're living your dream **192. Had to put someone you love into hospice care** 193. Built your own PC from parts 194. Sold your own artwork to someone who didn't know you 195. Had a booth at a street fair **196: Dyed your hair** **197: Been a DJ** 198: Found out someone was going to dump you via LiveJournal 199: Written your own role playing game 200: Been arrested _Been cautioned, and had my Mother visited by the local police (I was underage, see #024, and living away from home)._ Last Updated: 14/3/2006. 
